README.md, before:

#Semi-supervised learning pipeline
The pipeline consists of two blocks, a classification based on single samples, and a label propagation, which uses a similarity between the samples to denoise the labels assigned by the classifier. So the classifier provides unaries whereas the similarities the pairwise terms.

## Data files

### List file and truth file

Input data is specified in listfiles as CSV tables which have at least one column called ID. Minimal file should look like this:

	ID
	001
	002
	003
	…

The interpretation of the columns is entirely up to the feature computation, so a file with one image per sample can look like this:

	#path_prefix=/an/optional/path/prefix
	ID	path
	001	somedir/file001.png
	002 dir2/file002.png
	003 anotherdir/file003.png

The file can contain any number of other columns. A truth file is just a list file with an additional _integer_ column `truth` and optional labels:

	#basedir=/an/optional/path/prefix
	#truth_labels={ 1: 'classA', 2: 'classB' }
	#truth=truth
	ID	path	truth
	001	somedir/file001.png	1
	002 dir2/file002.png	2
	003 anotherdir/file003.png	1

### Feature file

A feature file is a CSV table of the following form:

	#methodname=compute_features_method
	#argsfile=argsfile
	#normalization=[(('f1', 'f2', 'f3'), 'L1'), ('f4', 'minmax'), ('f5', 'meanstd'), …
	#additional_optional_data1=…(eg. a dictionary filename)
	ID	f1	f2	f3	…
	001 2.	.4	-1	…
	002	3.  .5  .1	…
	003 2.	.7	-2	…

Column `ID` should match with the corresponding list file, all other columns are considered to be features.

### Classifier file

A pickled (serialized) bzip2-compressed Python dictionary with the following entries:

	features = { 'methodname': …, 'argsfile': …, 'normalization': … }
	options = …
	classes = [ 1, 3, 4, 7 ]
	labels = { 1: 'class1', 3: 'class2', 4: 'class3', 7: 'class4' }
	classifier = classifier_object

### Prediction file

A prediction file is a truth file with additional columns: `pred` with the predicted class and `prob_N` with probability of the class `N`.

### Evaluation file

Just a text file.

## Classification

* `features.py` - computes features from input data
* `train.py` - trains a classifier
* `predict.py` - predicts labels using an existing classifier

### features.py

Computes features for all the input data. It contains a function `compute_features(method_name, method_args, data)` which based on `method_name`  calls the specific method for each sample in data:

	features = []
	for sample in data:
		features += method_table[method_name](sample, cache=cache, **method_args)
	return features, feature_names

Command-line interface:

	features.py -m method_name -a argsfile -l listfile

This runs feature extraction and saves output features for data listed specified in the listfiles into `features.csv`.

### train.py

Runs feature extraction, selects optimal hyper-parameters by cross-validation, learns the final model from all the data, and finally saves the model. It contains a function `train_classifier(features, truth)`. Prints out training evaluation.

Command-line interface:

	train.py -t truthfile -f featurefile

where truth file is a listfile with columns ID, path, and truth.

It creates a file `classifier.dat`.

### predict.py

Loads an existing classifier and applies it to the data. Outputs predictions.

Command-line interface:

	predict.py -l listfile -c classifierfile

It creates a file `pred.csv`.

## Label propagation

* `similarity.py` - computes similarity of pairs of input data
* `propagate.py` - propagates labels from a classifier using similarities
* `evaluate.py` - evaluates propagated labels using ground truth


### similarity.py

Evaluates a similarity of all the sample pairs and saves the resulting symmetric matrix. Defines a function `compute_similarity(method_name, method_args, data)`.

Command-line interface:

	similarity.py -m method_name -a argsfile -l listfile

It creates a file `similarity.csv`.

### propagate.py

Command-line interface:

	propagate.py -l listfile -p predictionfile

It creates a prediction file `prop.csv`.

### evaluate.py

Evaluates the provided labels against the truthfile.

Command-line interface:

	test.py -t truthfile -p predictionfile

It creates a file `eval.csv`.

Commit message:

Add weight computation and label propagation to the ICCV pipeline.

README.md, after:

#Semi-supervised learning pipeline
The pipeline consists of two blocks, a classification based on single samples, and a label propagation, which uses a similarity between the samples to denoise the labels assigned by the classifier. So the classifier provides unaries whereas the similarities the pairwise terms.

## Data files

### List file and truth file

Input data is specified in listfiles as CSV tables which have at least one column called ID. Minimal file should look like this:

	ID
	001
	002
	003
	…

The interpretation of the columns is entirely up to the feature computation, so a file with one image per sample can look like this:

	#path_prefix=/an/optional/path/prefix
	ID	path
	001	somedir/file001.png
	002 dir2/file002.png
	003 anotherdir/file003.png

The file can contain any number of other columns. A truth file is just a list file with an additional _integer_ column `truth` and optional labels:

	#basedir=/an/optional/path/prefix
	#truth_labels={ 1: 'classA', 2: 'classB' }
	#truth=truth
	ID	path	truth
	001	somedir/file001.png	1
	002 dir2/file002.png	2
	003 anotherdir/file003.png	1

### Feature file and weights file

A feature file is a CSV table of the following form:

	#methodname=compute_features_method
	#argsfile=argsfile
	#normalization=[(('f1', 'f2', 'f3'), 'L1'), ('f4', 'minmax'), ('f5', 'meanstd'), …
	#additional_optional_data1=…(eg. a dictionary filename)
	ID	f1	f2	f3	…
	001 2.	.4	-1	…
	002	3.  .5  .1	…
	003 2.	.7	-2	…

Column `ID` should match with the corresponding list file, all other columns are considered to be features.

A weights file is a feature file with a square matrix of weights saved as features and indexed by sample IDs:

	#methodname=...
	ID	001	002	003	…
	001 2.	.4	-1	…
	002	3.  .5  .1	…
	003 2.	.7	-2	…

### Classifier file

A pickled (serialized) bzip2-compressed Python dictionary with the following entries:

	features = { 'methodname': …, 'argsfile': …, 'normalization': … }
	options = …
	classes = [ 1, 3, 4, 7 ]
	labels = { 1: 'class1', 3: 'class2', 4: 'class3', 7: 'class4' }
	classifier = classifier_object

### Prediction file

A prediction file is a truth file with additional columns: `pred` with the predicted class and `probN` with probability of the class `N`.


### Evaluation file

Just a text file.

## Classification

* `features.py` - computes features from input data
* `train.py` - trains a classifier
* `predict.py` - predicts labels using an existing classifier

### features.py

Computes features for all the input data. It contains a function `compute_features(method_name, method_args, data)` which based on `method_name`  calls the specific method for each sample in data:

	features = []
	for sample in data:
		features += method_table[method_name](sample, cache=cache, **method_args)
	return features, feature_names

Command-line interface:

	features.py -m method_name -a argsfile -l listfile

This runs feature extraction and saves output features for data listed specified in the listfiles into `features.csv`.

### train.py

Runs feature extraction, selects optimal hyper-parameters by cross-validation, learns the final model from all the data, and finally saves the model. It contains a function `train_classifier(features, truth)`. Prints out training evaluation.

Command-line interface:

	train.py -t truthfile -f featurefile

where truth file is a listfile with columns ID, path, and truth.

It creates a file `classifier.dat`.

### predict.py

Loads an existing classifier and applies it to the data. Outputs predictions.

Command-line interface:

	predict.py -l listfile -m classifierfile

It creates a prediction file `pred.csv`.

## Label propagation

* `weights.py` - computes weights of edges between data samples
* `propagate.py` - propagates labels from a classifier using weights
* `evaluate.py` - evaluates propagated labels using ground truth


### weights.py

Evaluates a mutual distances/dissimilarities between all the sample pairs and uses the distances to setup edge weights for the label propagation. Defines a function `compute_weights(method_name, method_args, data)`.

Command-line interface:

	weights.py -m method_name -a argsfile -l listfile

It creates a weights file `weights.csv`.

### propagate.py

Propagates labels according to predictions for different samples and according to the edge weights computed by `weights.py`. Defines a function `propagate(method_name, method_args, predictions, weights)`.

Command-line interface:

	propagate.py -m methodname -p predictionfile -w weightsfile

It creates a prediction file `prop.csv`.

### evaluate.py

Evaluates the provided labels against the truthfile.

Command-line interface:

	test.py -t truthfile -p predictionfile

It creates a file `eval.csv`.
